Signals are one of the oldest inter-process communication methods used by Unix
They are used to signal asynchronous events to one or more processes

A signal could be generated by a keyboard interrupt or an error condition such as the process attempting to access a non-existent location in its virtual memory

Signals are also used by the shells to signal job control commands to their child processes.



Processes can choose to ignore most of the signals that are generated

with two notable exceptions: neither the SIGSTOP signal which causes a process to halt its execution nor the SIGKILL signal which causes a process to exit can be ignored


Not every process in the system can send signals to every other process, the kernel can and super users can. Normal processes can only send signals to processes with the same _uid_ and _gid_ or to processes in the same process grou


Signals are generated by setting the appropriate bit in the task_struct's signal field
word size of 32 bits can have 32 signals whereas 64 bit processors like the Alpha AXP may have up to 64 signals


Signals are not presented to the process immediately they are generated., they must wait until the process is running again. Every time a process exits from a system call its signal and blocked fields are checked and, if there are any unblocked signals, they can now be delivered. This might seem a very unreliable method but every process in the system is making system calls, for example to write a character to the terminal, all of the time. Processes can elect to wait for signals if they wish, they are suspended in state Interruptible until a signal is presented.

## ignoraable kill [[li signal]]
#### SIGHUP 1
Term    Hangup detected on controlling terminal
SIGHUP is about the same as SIGTERM in terms of harshness, but it has a specific role because it's automatically sent to applications running in a terminal when the user disconnects from that terminal
#### SIGINT 2
Term    Interrupt from keyboard
SIGINT is the “weakest” of the lot. Its conventional meaning is “stop what you're doing right now and wait for further user input”. It's the signal generated by Ctrl+C in a terminal. Non-interactive programs generally treat it like SIGTERM.
#### SIGQUIT 3
Core    Quit from keyboard
SIGQUIT is the harshest of the ignorable signals. It's meant to be used when an application is misbehaving and needs to be killed now, and by default it traditionally left a [core dump](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Core_dump) file (modern systems where most users wouldn't know what a core file is tend to not produce them by default). Applications can set a handler but should do very little (in particular not save any state) because the intent of SIGQUIT is to be used when something is seriously wrong.
#### SIGTERM 15
- tells the [[li process]] to exit cleanly. 
- can be ignored or handled in various ways

## no ignorable 
#### SIGKILL 9
- kills the [[li process]] abruptly
- producing a fatal error. 
- cannot be irgnored

#### SIGILL 4 (Illegal instruction)
- kills the [[li process]] abruptly
- sent by the [[li kernel]] when the [[li process]] execute an invalid, privileged, or ill-formed instruction
- cannot be ignored.

# Signal      Default     Comment                              POSIX



  Name        Action

 1 SIGHUP     Terminate   Hang up controlling terminal or      Yes
                          process 
 2 SIGINT     Terminate   Interrupt from keyboard, Control-C   Yes
 3 SIGQUIT    Dump        Quit from keyboard, Control-\        Yes
 4 SIGILL     Dump        Illegal instruction
 5 SIGTRAP    Dump        Breakpoint for debugging             No
 6 SIGABRT    Dump        Abnormal termination                 Yes
 6 SIGIOT     Dump        Equivalent to SIGABRT                No
 7 SIGBUS     Dump        Bus error                            No
 8 SIGFPE     Dump        Floating-point exception             Yes
 9 SIGKILL    Terminate   Forced-process termination           Yes
10 SIGUSR1    Terminate   Available to processes               Yes
11 SIGSEGV    Dump        Invalid memory reference             Yes
12 SIGUSR2    Terminate   Available to processes               Yes
13 SIGPIPE    Terminate   Write to pipe with no readers        Yes
14 SIGALRM    Terminate   Real-timer clock                     Yes
15 SIGTERM    Terminate   Process termination                  Yes
16 SIGSTKFLT  Terminate   Coprocessor stack error              No
17 SIGCHLD    Ignore      Child process stopped or terminated  Yes
                          or got a signal if traced 
18 SIGCONT    Continue    Resume execution, if stopped         Yes
19 SIGSTOP    Stop        Stop process execution, Ctrl-Z       Yes
20 SIGTSTP    Stop        Stop process issued from tty         Yes
21 SIGTTIN    Stop        Background process requires input    Yes
22 SIGTTOU    Stop        Background process requires output   Yes
23 SIGURG     Ignore      Urgent condition on socket           No
24 SIGXCPU    Dump        CPU time limit exceeded              No
25 SIGXFSZ    Dump        File size limit exceeded             No
26 SIGVTALRM  Terminate   Virtual timer clock                  No
27 SIGPROF    Terminate   Profile timer clock                  No
28 SIGWINCH   Ignore      Window resizing                      No
29 SIGIO      Terminate   I/O now possible                     No
29 SIGPOLL    Terminate   Equivalent to SIGIO                  No
30 SIGPWR     Terminate   Power supply failure                 No
31 SIGSYS     Dump        Bad system call                      No
31 SIGUNUSED  Dump        Equivalent to SIGSYS                 No 